## Introduction to Evolution Algorithm 

> EAs

### why Evolution Algorithm?

limitation of traditional optimization method 

单峰问题 traditional method select a first point, and use graduation & step to find the optimal solution (单峰问题传统算法梯度下降找最优解很好)

but with multiple modals,traditional method may find a wrong solution (陷入局部最优解)

so how about searching from different directions, we can find many solution, and find the best of them 

### what are evolution algorithms?

intelligent optimization techniques inspired by nature 

> Darwin -> genetic algorithm 
>
> birds -> particle swarm optimization 
>
> ants -> ant colony algorithms 

### framework of evolution algorithm 

we have *NP*th individual, select some of them to get a population, then elect parent set from population, crossover and mutation on parent set to get a new  solutions, do a replacement on new solutions to get a new population, then loop it until reaching the halt condition.

> just a framework

### characteristics

1. search for the optimal solution from many points rather than one.
2. choose individuals based on `fitness function`(适应值信息, 启发函数), and **do not need** the `gradient information`.
3. use the random properties transition rule rather than the deterministic transition rule.

### some main paradigms

> classic:
>
> genetic algorithm 
> evolution strategy 
> evolutionary programming 

> ant colony optimization 
> particle swarm optimization 



-----

### what is GA?

take the inspiration from Darwin 's theory of evolution, natural selection, and survival of the fittest in biological world.

basic component of GA

chromosome or string, also called individual.

> 110000101000010001 string 

schema: fix some bits, and random others

- #### operations:

  - selection: individuals copied according to fitness function; an artificial version of nature selection; 

   > roulette wheel selection 
   >
   > create a wheel based on the properties of fitness.
  
  after selection, number of properties keep same.
  
  为了能够处理每一个分段的概率，我们把每个小段的概率叠加
  
  ```mermaid
  pie title probability 
      "A" : 3
      "B" : 5
      "C" : 2  
  ```
  
  
  $$
  0\to0.3 \space A\\
  0.3\to0.8\space B\\
  0.8\to1.0\space C\\
  $$
  
  
  
  
  
  - crossover
  
   > randomly select two individuals, from population; choosing a crossover site at random, exchange the site with property $p_e$.

  - mutation
  
    for every bit, it has a probability $p_m$ to flip between 1 and 0.

#### example

a function $f(x)$, we separate the search space(independent variable) into bits string.

> 初始获得一组随机bit串，通过编码把自变量范围分为二进制空间，然后把初始的个体计算适应函数。

then initial the initial population, then we get the fitness value of them. 

the property with the best fitness is marked as elitist, which is not involved in next generate. this keeps the best will never go down.

the rest get through selection, crossover and mutation until the target threshold is reached.

#### schema theorem 

order: the number of fixed bites 

length: the distance between the first and the last specific positions 

somehow, scheme theorem explains the reason why GA works.

